what is lenta.ru?

Online news resource, based in Russia. You can think of it as Russian online equaivalent of New Yorker, which in itself is pretty damn awesome, all things considered. You could read the materials and find out what the people profiled in them have actually said or what has actually transpired. And don't take it for granted, if you need a benchmark to bring your awareness to the value of professional reporting just turn the Fox news on for some contrast.

what is being done to lenta.ru?

The editor-in-chief Galina Timchenko that has been in charge of the resource since 2004 will be replaced by A. Goreslavky that throughtout his career has historically been in charge of ass kissing. The decision was made by the owner of merged "?????-???????-SUP". This "smooth" move is easy to intepret, which some journalists already have (Ilya Azar is leaving as well)

why you should you be horrified?

Immidiate aspects. Lenta.ru is one of the very few professional and honest media resources in Russia. Losing them means losing access to credible news source. In the past months their materials reflected difference in opinions over Ukrainian events, helping understand different groups involved in the conflicts. Some examples off the top of my head - Maria Baronova spoke with riot police Berkut in Kyiv shortly before the violence broke out, Ilya Azar interviewed one of the "?????? ??????" leaders. Being able to hear what people coming from different "camps" actually have to say is incredibly important, because resources like lenta.ru might be the onle place where those who consider each other opponents in current conflicts and in the ones yet to come can begin to "converse" which each other. If we can talk to each other, there's still hope. But the destruction of this space will also have a symbolic meaning.

Longer-term considerations. Because over time, war is to be peace and ignorance is to be strength and so on, if none of us happen to be in possession of a voice to challenge the lies. Because the most atrocious crimes can be committed and justified and no objections will be raised, if the ministry of truth is at work. And I am not relying on Orwell to supply evidence for these claims, I am relying on Solzhenitsyn. On his account of our common, not so recent history.

And in it is of little consolation that we have social media. That anyone with a phone and internets has a voice. Simply because you cannot replace in-depth, investigative journalism with instagram. And so yes, Ilya Azar did take a picture of human brains splattered on the street of Kyiv. Yes, it had to be seen to be understood. 

Yes, everyone else who was there was taking photos and videos and uploading, but at the end of the day it was Azar's report that gave a sober account of that day, explaining why and how people died on the streets of Kyiv. It was the calm and scrupulous account of the day that can turn back from the brink of insanity and protect those who cannot speak for themselves anymore. Pictures can be interpreted, and overloaded with meaning until the context is lost. But writing coming from someone with established reputation is harder to belie. Which I am guessing is the reason why some people would rather lenta.ru's corrs stopped writing.
